docs: steps to integrate telegraf into kepler (#139)
sustainable-computing-io/kepler-doc: docs/installation/Kepler-Telegraf-integration-steps.md

38 seconds ago      Up 35 seconds                                   
k8s_POD_kepler-exporter-bzj9b_kepler_827ee818-9f5a-460c-a368-fc90fde5d378_0
 
root@:~# kubectl get pod -n kepler
NAME                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kepler-exporter-8h8x7   1/1     Running   0          63s
kepler-exporter-bzj9b   1/1     Running   0          63s
root@:~# kubectl port-forward kepler-exporter-jdklk 9102:9102 -n kepler --address='0.0.0.0'

```

Download and start the Telegraf
==============================================

Telegraf can be installed on the system in various ways. Here it has
been done by downloading and building it from source.

Telegraf requires Go version \>=1.22 which can be installed : [Install
Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) and the Makefile requires GNU make.

Telegraf shares the same [minimum
requirements](https://go.dev/wiki/MinimumRequirements) as Go:

-   Linux kernel version 2.6.32 or later

-   Windows 10 or later

-   FreeBSD 12 or later

-   macOS 10.15 Catalina or later

Clone the Telegraf repository:
```
root@:~# git clone https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf.git

> ```

Reviewer: add a new line after the code block

Run make build from the source directory

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```

root@:~# cd telegraf
root@:~# make build

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: add a new line after the code block

Generate a Telegraf config file
```
root@:~# telegraf config > telegraf.conf

> ```

Reviewer: add a new line after the code block

Edit the generated config file to enable required plugins. For this
integration activity following plugins should be enabled:

**Input Plugins:** [Intel PowerStat
plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/intel_powerstat),
[Intel PMU
plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/intel_pmu),
and [IPMI
sensor](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/ipmi_sensor)
input

**Output Plugin:** [Prometheus output
plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/outputs/prometheus_client)
must be enabled in Telegraf config in order to store the metrics in
Prometheus database .

> Below is the sample config that have been used to enable all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the sample config that was used to enable all the
```

> above-mentioned plugins. Although, user can enable any other desired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
above-mentioned plugins. Although, the user can enable any other desired
```

plugin by commenting out the respective section.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

  # privilege = "ADMINISTRATOR"
  ##
  ## optionally specify one or more servers via a url matching
  ##  [username[:password]@][protocol[(address)]]
  ##  e.g.
  ##    root:passwd@lan(127.0.0.1)
  ##
  ## if no servers are specified, local machine sensor stats will be queried
  ##
  # servers = ["USERID:PASSW0RD@lan(192.168.1.1)"]

  ## Recommended: use metric 'interval' that is a multiple of 'timeout' to avoid
  ## gaps or overlap in pulled data
  interval = "30s"

  ## Timeout for the ipmitool command to complete. Default is 20 seconds.
  timeout = "20s"

  ## Schema Version: (Optional, defaults to version 1)
  metric_version = 2

  ## Optionally provide the hex key for the IMPI connection.
  # hex_key = ""

  ## If ipmitool should use a cache
  ## for me ipmitool runs about 2 to 10 times faster with cache enabled on HP G10 servers (when using ubuntu20.04)
  ## the cache file may not work well for you if some sensors come up late
  # use_cache = false

  ## Path to the ipmitools cache file (defaults to OS temp dir)
  ## The provided path must exist and must be writable
  # cache_path = ""

> ```

Reviewer: add a new line after the code block

Run Telegraf with the plugins defined in config file:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```

root@:~#./telegraf --config telegraf.conf
```

> Download and start the Prometheus container

Reviewer: fixup this top level title to be a level 2 or 3 header

==========================================================

> Prometheus can be installed on a system in various ways. Here it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus can be installed on a system in various ways. Here it is simply run inside a container.
```

downloaded and installed as a container.

Create a Prometheus configuration file that is scrapping from both
Kepler and Telegraf instance:

Sample Prometheus configuration file is as follows:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```

# my global config
global:
scrape_interval:     15s # Set the scrape interval to every 15 seconds. Default is every 1 minute.
evaluation_interval: 15s # Evaluate rules every 15 seconds. The default is every 1 minute.
# scrape_timeout is set to the global default (10s).

# A scrape configuration containing exactly one endpoint to scrape:
# Here it's Prometheus itself.
scrape_configs:
# The job name is added as a label `job=<job_name>` to any timeseries scraped from this config.
	- job_name: 'kepler'
	  static_configs:
		- targets: ['xx.xx.xx:9102'] 
	- job_name: 'telegraf'
	  static_configs:
		- targets: ['xx.xx.xx:9273']

> ```

Reviewer: Add a new line after a code block

Run the Prometheus container with the created Prometheus configuration file:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```

root@:~# docker run -d -p 9090:9090 -v $PWD/prometheus.yaml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml prom/prometheus

> ```

Reviewer: Add a new line after a code block

On the Prometheus GUI at localhost:9090, it can be confirmed that Prometheus is scrapping from Kepler and Telegraf.

> ![](../fig/Kepler-Telegraf-Prometheus.png)

Reviewer: Needs an image name to pass the markdown linter

> Download and start Grafana container

Reviewer: Fixup title level

==================================================

Like, Prometheus, Grafana can be installed on the system in various
ways. Here, we are installing Grafana's container image.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```

root@:~# docker run -d --network host --name grafana grafana/grafana

> ```

Reviewer: Add a new line after a code block

> Once Grafana container is running access the Grafana GUI at localhost:3000. Login with default credentials. After login, The Prometheus database needs to be added as a data source into Grafana GUI. Click on “DATA SOURCES” -> “Add your first data source”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Grafana container is running, access the Grafana GUI at localhost:3000. Login with the default credentials. After login, the Prometheus database needs to be added as a data source into the Grafana GUI. Click on `DATA SOURCES` -> `Add your first data source`
```

> And select Prometheus - > Click “Save and Test”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and select Prometheus - > Click “Save and Test”
```

Reviewer: should probably add this to the line above it

> Dashboard

Reviewer: fixup title level

=======================

Once Prometheus has been added as a data source, create a dashboard by
exporting
[Kepler-Exporter.json](https://github.com/sustainable-computing-io/kepler/blob/main/grafana-dashboards/Kepler-Exporter.json),
a default Grafana dashboard for Kepler.

This default Kepler dashboard can be edited in order to display Telegraf
metric along with Kepler metrics.

> For example in below shown example, right hand shows Power related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example in the image below, the right hand panel shows power related
```

> metrics collected by Telegraf whereas left hand shows Power related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metrics collected by Telegraf whereas left hand panel shows power related
```

metrics by Kepler per namespace:

> ![](../fig/Kepler-Telegraf-dashboard.png)

Reviewer: image needs a title

> **On Kepler side:**

Reviewer: would fix this as a lower level header with `####`

> 

Reviewer: Maybe create a bullet list for the items below

> **PKG-\>** Represents kepler\_container\_package\_joules\_total metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**PKG-\>** Represents `kepler_container_package_joules_total metrics`
```

You don't need to escape underscores in MD

Reviewer: same comment goes for all the escaped underscores that follow

which measures the cumulative energy consumed by the CPU socket,
including all cores and uncore components (e.g. last-level cache,
integrated GPU and memory controller).

**DRAM-\>** Represents kepler\_container\_dram\_joules\_total metric which
describes the total energy spent in DRAM by a container.

**Other-\>** Represents kepler\_container\_other\_joules\_total metric
measures the cumulative energy consumption on other host components
besides the CPU and DRAM. Generally, this metric is the host energy

> consumption (from acpi) less the RAPL Package and DRAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consumption (from ACPI) less the RAPL Package and DRAM.
```

> **On Telegraf side:**

Reviewer: would fix this as a lower level header with ####

> 

Reviewer: Too many new lines

Reviewer: Also maybe a bullet list for the items below would make it a little more readable.

**Total PKG current Power->** Represents
powerstat\_package\_current\_power\_consumptions metrics which showcase
Current power consumption of processor package. On Grafana it is the sum
of the metrics on both the sockets i.e.
powerstat\_package\_current\_power\_consumptions of socket 0 +
powerstat\_package\_current\_power\_consumptions of socket 1.

**Total DRAM power ->** Represents
powerstat\_package\_current\_dram\_power\_consumptions metrics which
describes the total energy spent in DRAM of both the sockets.

**Total Thermal design Power ->** Represents
powerstat\_package\_current\_thermal\_power\_consumptions metrics which
describes maximum Thermal Design Power (TDP) available for processor
package. On Grafana it is the sum of the metrics on both the sockets
i.e. powerstat\_package\_current\_thermal\
\_power\_consumptions of socket 0 +
powerstat\_package\_current\_thermal\_power\_consumptions of socket 1.

**Total DRAM Power metrics number on Kepler side and Telegraf side
aligns with each other(approximately).**

> Telegraf- IPMI metric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telegraf-IPMI metric
```

Also fixup header level with the appropriate number of `##`

---------------------

> On Kepler dashboard, we are also pulling IPMI metrics which show Power

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Kepler dashboard, we are also pulling IPMI metrics which show power
```

> Supply Current out %.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supply current out percentage.
```

> ![](../fig/Kepler-Telegraf-IPMI.png)

Reviewer: figure needs a name for the MD linter
